README.md, before:

# 📝 To-Do List Web App

A responsive, interactive to-do list web application that allows users to add, manage, and track tasks with reminders and priorities. Built with **HTML**, **CSS**, and **JavaScript**, this project demonstrates client-side task management features with a focus on user experience and design.

---

## Table of Contents

- [Tech Stack](#teck-stack)
- [Features](#features)
- [Screenshot](#screenshot)
- [Project Structure](#project-structure)
- [Feature Improvements](#feature-improvements)
- [Known Issues](#known-issues)
- [Changelog](#changelog)
- [License](#license)
- [Author](#author)

---

## 🔧 Tech Stack

- **HTML5** – Markup structure  
- **CSS3** – Styling and layout  
- **JavaScript (Vanilla)** – Functionality and interaction  
- **Material Icons** – Icons  
- **Local Storage** – Saving tasks persistently in the browser  

---

## ✨ Features

- **Task Creation** 
  Add tasks with a title, date, time, priority, and a pre-task reminder.
- **Reminder System** 
  Schedule alerts before task start time using customizable minute intervals.
- **Task Management**
  - Mark tasks as complete
  - Edit or delete tasks instantly
- **Live Clock**
  Displays current system time at the top of the app.
- **Live Time Countdown**
   Displays the remaining time for upcoming tasks (e.g., “57 mins left”, “4 hours 56 mins left”).
- **Task Categories/Tabs**
  - `Upcoming Tasks`: shows only tasks scheduled for the future.
  - `To Do List`: shows all active tasks.
  - `Completed`: shows tasks marked as done with green highlighting.
  - `Expired`: (based on earlier screenshot) shows overdue tasks.
- **Completed Task View**
  - Marked tasks are moved to the Completed tab.
  - Still displays priority and deadline information.
  - UI turns green for visual confirmation.
- **Priority-Based Styling**
   Priority color coding persists across all tabs for easy recognition.
- **Clean & Responsive Layout**
   Layout adapts and clearly separates tasks with visual cues and section headers.

---

## 📸 Screenshot

![Screenshot](assets/screenshot1.png)

![Screenshot](assets/screenshot2.png)

![Screenshot](assets/screenshot3.png)

![Screenshot](assets/screenshot4.png)

---

## 📁 Project Structure

```
todo-app/
├── index.html
├── css/
│   └── style.css
├── js/
│   └── script.js
├── assets/
│   └── screenshot.png
└── README.md
```

---

## 🛠 How to Run Locally

1. Clone the repo
```bash
git clone https://github.com/Hooman-Siadat/todo-app.git
```

That’s it. no server needed!

---

## 📌 Future Improvements

- Add drag-and-drop task reordering
- Add search and filter options
- Support for recurring tasks
- Optional dark mode
- Support IndexedDB
- Improve stylesheet (use variables)

---

## 🐞 Known Issues

- No back-end — tasks are only saved in the browser’s local storage.
- Some reminders may not trigger if the tab is inactive for long periods (depends on browser behavior).

---

## 🔄 Changelog

### [v1.0.1] - 2025-05-14

- Added on screen notification messaging system.

### [v1.0] - 2025-05-13

- Initial release with task creation, completion toggle, and deletion.

---

## 📄 License

This project is open source and available under the MIT License.

---

## 🙋‍♂️ Author

Built with passion by Hooman Siadat.

GitHub: [@Hooman-Siadat](https://github.com/Hooman-Siadat)

Commit message:

fixed some bugs and made some improvments updated README.md
fixed a bug where if several tasks were scheduled for the same time it notified the user for only one of the upcoming tasks. updated the README.md file accordingly

README.md, after:

# 📝 To-Do List Web App

A responsive, interactive to-do list web application that allows users to add, manage, and track tasks with reminders and priorities. Built with **HTML**, **CSS**, and **JavaScript**, this project demonstrates client-side task management features with a focus on user experience and design.

---

## Table of Contents

- [Tech Stack](#teck-stack)
- [Features](#features)
- [Screenshot](#screenshot)
- [Project Structure](#project-structure)
- [Feature Improvements](#feature-improvements)
- [Known Issues](#known-issues)
- [Changelog](#changelog)
- [License](#license)
- [Author](#author)

---

## 🔧 Tech Stack

- **HTML5** – Markup structure  
- **CSS3** – Styling and layout  
- **JavaScript (Vanilla)** – Functionality and interaction  
- **Material Icons** – Icons  
- **Local Storage** – Saving tasks persistently in the browser  

---

## ✨ Features

- **Task Creation** 
  Add tasks with a title, date, time, priority, and a pre-task reminder.
- **Reminder System** 
  Schedule alerts before task start time using customizable minute intervals.
- **Task Management**
  - Mark tasks as complete
  - Edit or delete tasks instantly
- **Live Clock**
  Displays current system time at the top of the app.
- **Live Time Countdown**
   Displays the remaining time for upcoming tasks (e.g., “57 mins left”, “4 hours 56 mins left”).
- **Task Categories/Tabs**
  - `Upcoming Tasks`: shows only tasks scheduled for the future.
  - `To Do List`: shows all active tasks.
  - `Completed`: shows tasks marked as done with green highlighting.
  - `Expired`: (based on earlier screenshot) shows overdue tasks.
- **Completed Task View**
  - Marked tasks are moved to the Completed tab.
  - Still displays priority and deadline information.
  - UI turns green for visual confirmation.
- **Priority-Based Styling**
   Priority color coding persists across all tabs for easy recognition.
- **Clean & Responsive Layout**
   Layout adapts and clearly separates tasks with visual cues and section headers.

---

## 📸 Screenshot

![Screenshot](assets/screenshot1.png)

![Screenshot](assets/screenshot2.png)

![Screenshot](assets/screenshot3.png)

![Screenshot](assets/screenshot4.png)

---

## 📁 Project Structure

```
todo-app/
├── index.html
├── css/
│   └── style.css
├── js/
│   └── script.js
├── assets/
│   └── screenshot.png
└── README.md
```

---

## 🛠 How to Run Locally

1. Clone the repo
```bash
git clone https://github.com/Hooman-Siadat/todo-app.git
```

That’s it. no server needed!

---

## 📌 Future Improvements

- Add drag-and-drop task reordering
- Add search and filter options
- Support for recurring tasks
- Optional dark mode
- Support IndexedDB
- Improve stylesheet (use variables)

---

## 🐞 Known Issues

- No back-end — tasks are only saved in the browser’s local storage.
- Some reminders may not trigger if the tab is inactive for long periods (depends on browser behavior).

---

## 🔄 Changelog

### [v1.0.2] - 2025-05-14

- Fixed notification offset validation logic which allowed the user to select an offset with no time set.
- Cleaned up some minor debugging codes.
- Revised the logic so it will return all the upcoming tasks scheduled for the same time.
- Added a helper function so it will track all the created `setTimeout`s and clears them properly.

### [v1.0.1] - 2025-05-14

- Added on screen notification messaging system.

### [v1.0] - 2025-05-13

- Initial release with task creation, completion toggle, and deletion.

---

## 📄 License

This project is open source and available under the MIT License.

---

## 🙋‍♂️ Author

Built with passion by Hooman Siadat.

GitHub: [@Hooman-Siadat](https://github.com/Hooman-Siadat)
